README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<img width="1200" height="475" alt="GHBanner" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0aa67016-6eaf-458a-adb2-6e31a0763ed6" />
</div>

# 🧠 Aura-Orb

**AI-Powered Mental Health Support Platform**

An intelligent mental health companion app leveraging Google's Gemini API to provide personalized, empathetic support. Aura-Orb combines cutting-edge AI with a user-centric design to create a safe, accessible space for mental wellness.

---

## ✨ About Aura-Orb

Aura-Orb is a full-stack web application designed to help users navigate mental health challenges with intelligent, AI-powered conversations. The app provides:

- Intelligent Conversations: Powered by Google Gemini API for empathetic, contextual mental health support
- Privacy-First Design: Secure API integration with data privacy best practices
- User-Friendly Interface: Modern React UI for seamless interaction
- Accessible Support: 24/7 availability for mental wellness guidance

---

## 🚀 Key Features

- AI Mental Health Assistant: Intelligent chatbot providing supportive conversations and coping strategies
- Privacy-Focused Architecture: End-to-end secure communication using Google Gemini API
- Responsive Design: Works seamlessly on desktop and mobile devices
- Real-Time Conversations: Fast, interactive responses using modern web technologies

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Frontend: React, TypeScript, Vite
- Backend Services: Node.js, Express (optional backend layer)
- AI Integration: Google Gemini API
- Deployment: Google AI Studio, Vercel-ready

---

## 📁 Project Structure

- **components** - Reusable React components
- **services** - API & service integrations (Gemini)
- **utils** - Helper functions & utilities
- **App.tsx** - Main application component
- **.env.loc


---

## 🏃 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+ installed
- Google Gemini API key (free tier available)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/nqobile-x/Aura-Orb.git
cd Aura-Orb

2. Install dependencies:
npm install

3. Configure API Key:
- Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory
- Set your Gemini API key:
  ```
  VITE_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
  ```
- Get your free API key: [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com)

4. Run locally:
npm run dev
- Open `http://localhost:5173` in your browser

---

## 🌐 Live Demo

Try Aura-Orb on Google AI Studio:
[https://ai.studio/apps/drive/18CEwcFIpXCC5CYNBNFLmlkvtF-NHDaxt](https://ai.studio/apps/drive/18CEwcFIpXCC5CYNBNFLmlkvtF-NHDaxt)

---

## 🔐 Privacy & Security

- Data Protection: Secure API integration with Google Gemini
- No Data Storage: Conversations are not persisted unless explicitly saved by the user
- Privacy-First Principles: Compliant with best practices for sensitive mental health data
- Transparent Processing: Clear communication about how conversations are handled

---

## 📚 Available Scripts
Development server with hot reload
npm run dev

Build for production
npm run build

Preview production build
npm run preview

Run linting
npm run lint

---

## 🎯 What's Next?

- Multi-language support for global accessibility
- Mood tracking and progress visualization
- Integration with professional mental health resources
- Community support features
- Advanced analytics for mental wellness trends

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests for improvements, bug fixes, or feature additions.

Areas for Contribution:
- UI/UX enhancements
- Additional AI features
- Performance optimization
- Documentation improvements
- Multi-language support

---

## 📋 License

This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.

---

## 💬 Feedback & Support

- Found a bug? Open an issue on GitHub
- Have ideas? Discussions and feature requests are welcome
- Questions? Feel free to reach out

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Google Gemini API for powerful AI capabilities
- React & Vite for modern web development
- Community for testing and feedback

---

Built with ❤️ for mental wellness

Aura-Orb: Your AI Companion for Mental Health
`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3JY0hHwOCpw`

Commit message:

Enhance README with demo video and image
Added a demo video link and image to README.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<img width="1200" height="475" alt="GHBanner" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0aa67016-6eaf-458a-adb2-6e31a0763ed6" />
</div>

# 🧠 Aura-Orb

**AI-Powered Mental Health Support Platform**

An intelligent mental health companion app leveraging Google's Gemini API to provide personalized, empathetic support. Aura-Orb combines cutting-edge AI with a user-centric design to create a safe, accessible space for mental wellness.

---

## ✨ About Aura-Orb

Aura-Orb is a full-stack web application designed to help users navigate mental health challenges with intelligent, AI-powered conversations. The app provides:

- Intelligent Conversations: Powered by Google Gemini API for empathetic, contextual mental health support
- Privacy-First Design: Secure API integration with data privacy best practices
- User-Friendly Interface: Modern React UI for seamless interaction
- Accessible Support: 24/7 availability for mental wellness guidance

---

## 🚀 Key Features

- AI Mental Health Assistant: Intelligent chatbot providing supportive conversations and coping strategies
- Privacy-Focused Architecture: End-to-end secure communication using Google Gemini API
- Responsive Design: Works seamlessly on desktop and mobile devices
- Real-Time Conversations: Fast, interactive responses using modern web technologies

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Frontend: React, TypeScript, Vite
- Backend Services: Node.js, Express (optional backend layer)
- AI Integration: Google Gemini API
- Deployment: Google AI Studio, Vercel-ready

---

## 📁 Project Structure

- **components** - Reusable React components
- **services** - API & service integrations (Gemini)
- **utils** - Helper functions & utilities
- **App.tsx** - Main application component
- **.env.loc


---

## 🏃 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+ installed
- Google Gemini API key (free tier available)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/nqobile-x/Aura-Orb.git
cd Aura-Orb

2. Install dependencies:
npm install

3. Configure API Key:
- Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory
- Set your Gemini API key:
  ```
  VITE_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
  ```
- Get your free API key: [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com)

4. Run locally:
npm run dev
- Open `http://localhost:5173` in your browser

---

## 🌐 Live Demo

Try Aura-Orb on Google AI Studio:
[https://ai.studio/apps/drive/18CEwcFIpXCC5CYNBNFLmlkvtF-NHDaxt](https://ai.studio/apps/drive/18CEwcFIpXCC5CYNBNFLmlkvtF-NHDaxt)

---

## 🔐 Privacy & Security

- Data Protection: Secure API integration with Google Gemini
- No Data Storage: Conversations are not persisted unless explicitly saved by the user
- Privacy-First Principles: Compliant with best practices for sensitive mental health data
- Transparent Processing: Clear communication about how conversations are handled

---

## 📚 Available Scripts
Development server with hot reload
npm run dev

Build for production
npm run build

Preview production build
npm run preview

Run linting
npm run lint

---

## 🎯 What's Next?

- Multi-language support for global accessibility
- Mood tracking and progress visualization
- Integration with professional mental health resources
- Community support features
- Advanced analytics for mental wellness trends

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests for improvements, bug fixes, or feature additions.

Areas for Contribution:
- UI/UX enhancements
- Additional AI features
- Performance optimization
- Documentation improvements
- Multi-language support

---

## 📋 License

This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.

---

## 💬 Feedback & Support

- Found a bug? Open an issue on GitHub
- Have ideas? Discussions and feature requests are welcome
- Questions? Feel free to reach out

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Google Gemini API for powerful AI capabilities
- React & Vite for modern web development
- Community for testing and feedback

---

Built with ❤️ for mental wellness

Aura-Orb: Your AI Companion for Mental Health

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3JY0hHwOCpw
[![Watch the demo](https://img.youtube.com/vi/3JY0hHwOCpw/maxresdefault.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3JY0hHwOCpw)

> 🎬 Click the image above to watch the full demo of Aura-Orb — an AI-powered mental health assistant built with React, Gemini API, and Vercel.
